So we had a couple of nice effects here,
what's missing or what we can also do is here on the orders screen, when we expand the details here
of course you could also animate that in. Now for this, we'll again animate the container
and since we did that before, of course feel free to try it on your own first before we thereafter do
it together.
In the end, you shouldn't be more than just the animate container.
So here's your chance to pause the video and try this on your own and thereafter, we'll do it together. Were
you successful?
Let's do together. Our order items are controlled here in the widgets folder, in the order_item.dart file
and in there, we render this card for the order item.
Now the goal is simple, that card now has to be wrapped with a new widget and that should be our animated
container, so that we can animate the height of this card over time. The time is totally up to you and
you configure it with the duration argument and the duration object and I'll stick to the good old 300
milliseconds but of course, you can use a different duration.
Now the height is the thing which should change and of course, it should change when we change
the expanded mode. So let's take expanded here as a trigger so to say and then switch between two different
values, to be precise,
actually I want to use the calculation I have down there because that is how that height should change.
So I'll again use my min calculation here and if we're expanded, then I'll run this calculation and otherwise
I'll use a fallback value of let's say 95 and we'll have to play around with these values to get a
feeling for what looks good.
Now we have another container and that's the container here in the if statement. The if statement should
be removed and this container should now also be replaced with an animated container
because that's the container which actually also should animate because it shows us the items
that are part of this order. I'll set this here to the same duration, 300 milliseconds and we are already
controlling the height here
but of course the height now also needs to change dynamically
there. If we're in expanded mode, then I want to use this height here,
otherwise a height of zero because this container should be fully not there
if we're not expanded. The main container out there should always have a base height even if we're not
expanded because it does show us some information, like the price and the date here even if it's not
expanded. Let's give it a try, let's save that and this does not have the effect I wanted simply because
the outer container is too small and that makes sense. Here, that main container that wraps the entire
card, when we're in an expanded mode, I take the smaller value of either 100 or of this dynamic
calculation, of course that has to be too small, here we should maybe go to 110 and here
to 200 because that needs to be bigger than the inner container and certainly needs to be bigger
than our base value here because the base value is in not expanded mode if we had 100 here as a
minimum in expanded mode, it makes sense that we don't fit anything in there. So let's save that and now this
actually looks quite nice,
this now has a nice look when we expand this and when we shrink this, a nice little animation which you
of course can finetune to your requirements if you want to but I'd say this is a nice animation and
of course as you saw, this also always means that you have to play around with the values a little bit
to find the configuration that looks good, feels good and plays the animation in a smooth way.